---
title: Chapter1
chapter: 1
location: Philadelphia
level: 2
order: 2
character: Julie Li
---

### Julie Li

Julie Li decided to ride her bike to campus.  It was a nice day for late October, the road was dry and she had half-purposefully missed the bus to the subway to the el or trolley and over the river. She turned West on Fairmount, unhurriedly, midterms over, no tests for another four weeks. MCATs coming up though, next month. Shit no, two weeks! Red light. Pull break levers. Wobble slighly. Put right foot down. Lean on rams-head handlebars and take a deep breath. Why the moment she felt happy about anything did she need to find a thought to pull it back?

Green. No, not crisp. Crisp is cooler; this is body temperature, feels perfect. Climate change. There it goes again. No, not body temperature, that's like 98. Equilibrium? Yeah, that's right. The natural epidermal temperature such that the heat produced by the metabolic process is dissipated to the ambient environment at the same rate as it's produced.  Medical biochemistry, CH 353, last spring. Some of it was sinking in. Dr. Molinari would be proud. No, satisfied. Ryan was in that class, in her lab group. Not in any this semester though, too bad. He was easy to work with. Why? It felt like he didn't assume too much about her except competence. Men, well boys, it seemed like sometimes didn't think she was as smart, maybe. Ryan didn't exude that. And he was tall. Is it a crush? No not a crush. If she had a crush she would just ask him out. Definitely, she would go for it, but now MCATs and everything.

Peek back over shoulder on the downslope, watch for car doors. Clear. Over to the turning lane and that's a hell of a light to make. The city is quiet at eleven, like a collective nap. Faster now for the hill to the bridge on the straightaway in front of the [stairs](https://farm6.staticflickr.com/5216/5462733142_2d3636baba_z.jpg). Breathing heavier, she connected her sensations to physiology. The slow rotation of the sprocket in high gear, standing up, unfolding the knee to full extension.  Push and pull with the quadriceps. No pull by curling the ankle with the calf muscle, what's it called?  Something with a G, like stomach. Gastocnemius, strange prefix for the leg.

Just enough and settle back down on the bridge over the Schulykill. What a world away from high school, her parents would have lost their minds or hivemind if they knew she was alone in the dark city on a bike on a bridge just three years ago. Perhaps, thinking about it, that perspective isn't too unreasonable. How much has changed! She could never have thought the thoughts she just thought or probably this one, as deep as she had believed herself to be. Her whole being seemed so much more directable, scrutable, than it had, and she had been utterly unaware of her ignorance. Just three years and she can envision every action of her body as in some instructional video or gif. Each heartbeat represented flow and heat and chemical reactions and she felt it, intimately. Some moments, medicine was exactly in line with her own desires.

Break slowly, check behind, and drift into the turning lane and down through Drexel. She felt grateful for the experience of knowing what was underneath her movements and sensations. She thought of her doubts half-intentionally. Was it really her or had she been conditioned to overvalue this intellectual reward against her nature? And what was it about medicine? Such a fucking stereotype. She knew her parents weren't cardboard cutout Chinese immigrants, but sometimes it felt like it when they pushed you in this direction so hard. Plenty of Asians and Asian-Americans are going to school for whatever, isn't Penn enough? Say you'll only pay for pre-med, make the MCAT appointment on your own. Thanks for making it in the middle of the damn semester! Christmas'll be only talk of what schools to apply for what specialty, grades, a full analysis of the MCAT scores.

She stopped at 34th and Market and took a deep breath again. The intersection whizzed, and she paid attention without thinking. Still, in her concentration she felt a sense of unease and perhaps a modicum of guilt. She shouldn't be so critical, they gave her a pretty good childhood. It wasn't easy with the recessions. But medicine excludes so many experiences. Her stomach dropped when she thought of the narrowing of the scope of her life in two years. Sure it was inevitable, but so soon and so irrevocably. She had done the very simple math to map it out last month. She would be a doctor by 31 at the earliest, as a general practicioner or internist, and 35 at the latest with a more narrow specialty. She always figured on anesthesiology so she wouldn't be constantly talking to people, but that would take the longest. She couldn't even imagine herself at 35, and she'd have to wait until then to make any money. Did she want kids? How would that even be possible?

She dismounted at the edge of campus and pulled her bike over the curb onto the crowded sidewalk a little unsteady. She slid her bike alongside the parking bollard. Why were they pushing her so hard, don't they want grandchildren? Isn't that why they came to this country? To have more than one. Didn't they want that option for her? She fumbled for her stick and took three big breaths. She tried to clear the negativity, understand that it was her go-to emotion and that it didn't have to be. She thought of the vetebrate anatomy class starting in an hour, the lecture hall, the old smell of the buildings, the coffee shop three doors down and the very near future mocha latte in her own mug.

She pulled out her stick to swipe the fob for the parking arm to lock the bike. Nothing happened. Strange. She swiped a few more times until she realized her stick was off. Whatever, these things didn't make much sense to her. She hit the power button on the side and immediately the hologram rose and showed an image of a lambda in a circle. She knew that was unusual.
